What is a programming language?
A programming language is a formal language comprising a set of strings that produce various kinds of machine code output. Programming languages are one kind of computer language, and are used in computer programming to implement algorithms. Most programming languages consist of instructions for computers

What type of programming language is Java?
The Java™ Programming Language is a general-purpose, concurrent, strongly typed (variables need to be declared with a type), class-based object-oriented language

What do we need to be able to write a program?
The text editor you use can be anything from a plain text editor with only a few functions to a complex development environment. The tool you use should be a compiler and/or an interpreter, depending on the language you're working with and your needs.

What is a statement?
Java statements are instructions that tell the programming language what to do, like declaration and string statements.

What is a variable?
a piece of memory that can contain a data value

What is variable declaration?
Creating a variable

What is variable assignment?
Assignment in Java is the process of giving a value to a primitive-type variable or giving an object reference to an object-type variable.

What kind of variable types do you know?
String - stores text, such as "Hello". ...
int - stores integers (whole numbers), without decimals, such as 123 or -123.
float - stores floating point numbers, with decimals, such as 19.99 or -19.99.
char - stores single characters, such as 'a' or 'B'. ...
boolean - stores values with two states: true or false.

What is an operator?
Operators are special symbols that perform specific operations on one, two, or three operands, and then return a result

What type of operators do you know?
Operator	Description	Example
&& (and)	True if both the operands is true	a<10 && a<20
|| (or)	True if either of the operands is true	a<10 || a<20
! (not)	True if an operand is false (complements the operand)	
+ - / *

What is the Hello World! application?
A "Hello, World!" program generally is a computer program that outputs or displays the message "Hello, World!". Such a program is very simple in most programming languages, and is often used to illustrate the basic syntax of a programming language. It is often the first program written by people learning to code.

What is string concatenation?
the operation of joining character strings end-to-end

What is a block?
A block in Java is a group of one or more statements enclosed in braces. A block begins with an opening brace ({) and ends with a closing brace (}). Between the opening and closing braces, you can code one or more statements. For example: { int i, j; i = 100; j = 200; } A block is itself a type of statement.

What is an if statement?
The Java if statement is the most simple decision-making statement. It is used to decide whether a certain statement or block of statements will be executed or not i.e if a certain condition is true then a block of statement is executed otherwise not.

What is a for-loop statement?
The Java for loop is a control flow statement that iterates a part of the programs multiple times. The Java while loop is a control flow statement that executes a part of the programs repeatedly on the basis of given boolean condition. ... If the number of iteration is fixed, it is recommended to use for loop

What is a while-loop statement?
Java while loop is a control flow statement that allows code to be executed repeatedly based on a given Boolean condition. The while loop can be thought of as a repeating if statement. ... If the condition evaluates to true then we will execute the body of the loop and go to update expression

What is a do-loop statement?
The Java do-while loop is used to iterate a part of the program repeatedly, until the specified condition is true. If the number of iteration is not fixed and you must have to execute the loop at least once, it is recommended to use a do-while loop. Java do-while loop is called an exit control loop.

What is a switch statement?
The switch statement is a multi-way branch statement. It provides an easy way to dispatch execution to different parts of code based on the value of the expression. Basically, the expression can be byte, short, char, and int primitive data types

How can you get input from the user via command line?
Using the scanner class